Notes

Left wall = 206

Right wall = 994

Player is 30 pixels wide

the whole width of the map is 994-206=788

The player spawns 10 pixels off the left wall and is 30 pixels wide so start the first enemy at 206 + 50 = 256

since you know this you can spread the enemies out by 35 pixels (30 for the character and 5 as a fudge factor)??? This will be a number that you will play with

Add 35 to 256 until you get to (994-50)=944 or close to it. There should be 20 enemies on this level

C:\Users\lanek\OneDrive\Documents\All Things Code\Raylib-RunningCube\src\main.cpp


3/24
This thought just popped up in my head, I'm not going to have to use this now, but whenever you make the level where you have circles moving in a
circular direction, you are going to essentially have a middle point and then from there you will have a different radius for each rotating circle. The radius
increases with each sequential circle. You will be drawing the rotating circles on different x,y coordinates each game loop. You will essentially have 
an "invisible" circle that the "rotating circles" revolve around.


 - COLLISION DETECTION: make a function where you have to pass throught the x and y coordinates for player and enemy. Greater than x but less than x+width
 if(enemy.x > player.x && enemy.x < player.x+player.width) ----> THEN player dies... restart


 4/7
 Finally found the game on cool math games, so I will be using that as a reference. I'll make one or two more levels with the rectangular shaped map,
 then I will learn how to make a map maker.


4/13
- Level 2 will have squares that will go the opposite directions. After this level is when I will start to learn how to make a map instead of drawing
the map manually. This will probably be done with sprite sheets. Pacman was the same concept. Pacman behaves differently according to what part of 
the sprite sheet he is in.

- Once the player hits the finish line, current level equals 2, clear the enemy vector and rebuild a new one and put the player coordinates back
at the starting position.

- Alright, the initial setup of level 2 is done. Now you need to figure out how to get the enemies to move in opposite directions of each other. 
Might have to make a separate function for this. Redundant code, but will get the job done.

4/16
- Alright, moving onto level 2. I'm thinking about putting the enemy moving function in main instead of in the player class.
- First enemy will move up and then the movement will alternate after that
- In the function I'll pass through the whole entire vector of enemies. Once I access the first enemy I'll move it up or down depending on a specific
    condition. Maybe make a bool that says, "if the enemy is moving up make bool variable true, else make it false". Actually scratch that....
    Alright, I think I figured it out. Before I begin looping through all the enemies when the level starts. I will give each enemy a "flag" The first 
    enemy will have movingDown = false and then it alternates after that. This will be ....... Okay actually just figured it out now. Literally just
    have two different functions for the even and odd enemies....... duh..

4/29
Okay so the enemies are moving now, but its not truly working. the even numbers are uneven and the odd numbers are hitting the bottom, getting
stuck, then continuing to move down. they are not reversing.

fixed the issue where they dont reverse directions, but now the enemies get all out of sync as we go through the game loop. Level 2 is done.

moving on to the map maker. Will probably scratch level one and two or maybe not cause i spent a lot of time on those and learned a lot from them 
so they deserve to be in the game. 

5/6
Level two still needs work but I want to move on to the map maker. There will be a map maker class that handles a two dimensional array. Within this 
2d array you will have map width and height. From there, you will manually input your enum values. to draw the map you will loop through the enum
values in the 2d array and draw a specific square depending on what value is in what spot in the array. 

6/15
I will make the map header coded in a way that I can draw on the whole entire screen. The screen width is 1200px and the screen height is 600px
If I am making my game similar to the worlds hardest game, then my tiles need to be bigger than the player. The player is 30px, so the tiles will be 40px

    600(screen height) / 40(tile size) = 15 rows
    1200(screen width) / 40(tile size) = 30 columns

The fullscreen map maker is done, but the walls need to be way thinner. If you look at the worlds hardest game, his walls are probably about 
5px wide. You will need to be able to draw on each side of the tiles. I'm just jotting my thoughts on this txt page: Maybe you can make a 2d array 
that tracks all of the top and bottom sides of each tile and then another 2d array that will track the left and right side of each tile? 
You could also check some examples from Raylib.

You can try and do the 2d array for the walls, but you will need to go to case 100 and subtract 5 pixels from mouseCol and mouseRow, so this and The
walls won't overlap with each other.

Okay I think I figured it out. You will have to draw the walls last after drawing all of the other tiles. Whenever you place a wall tile, it will check every direction around it
in the 2d array. If it finds a value of 2, 3 or 5 then a skinny rectangle will be drawn on the side of the tile wherever the 2, 3 or 5 is at. for example:


        {1, 1, 1, 4, 4, 4, 3},
        {1, 1, 1, 1, 5, 5, 3},
        ...,
        ...,

        A wall will be drawn at the bottom of the tile @ (0,4) because there is a 5 below it. Same goes for (0,5).

6/22
Go to map.cpp to change the functionality of the draw function

6/29
Case 4 needs to be changed in the map class. For now we will brute force every possible situation. If you come across a value of 2, 3, or 5 in the grid, then you will draw a wall
according to where that value is. Refer to the notes above.

-BOTTOM WALL: For this one you want to draw a line that has (tileX, tileY, 40, )

-UPDATE: bottom wall and right wall works. Nice!! On to debugging and figuring out why the top and left does not work. Might be because of the way im referencing the values in grid...
we shall see.

8/3
The wall drawing functionality is now fixed (from the short testing that I did). Moving onto collision. 

The player will need a way to communicate with the 2 dimensional array. 

The player will have four different points. It would be better if the player had two points, one on the top left which could check top and left
collision and one on the bottom right which could check bottom and right collision, but I'll do four points for now cause it would make the most 
sense in my head. Pic below illustrates what this would look like. 


DISREGARD EVERYTHING UNTIL LINE 134
While the player is moving around, these four points will:
    - First, figure out which tile they are in. This entails converting the pixel position back to a tile position
    - Second, once you figure out what tile position it is in, then you will check the direction that the point is supposed to check. For example,
      the left point on the player needs to check the tile to the left of whatever tile it is currently in.


                                        --------o--------
                                        |               |
                                        |               |
                                        o               o
                                        |               |
                                        |               |
                                        |               |
                                        --------o--------

After looking at this further, this just over complicates things. I'll stick with the two coordinates, top left and bottom right corners of
the square. For the top left corner, you can just reference the x and y value in the square class. For the bottom right corner make some get()
functions to return these values.

1. Grab top left and bottom right coordinates of player - DONE
2. Make get() functions that finds the tile of each coordinate - DONE
3. Make the collision detection function
    - IF (a specific coordinate is in said tile){
        Check the respective value in the 2d array
    }


8/4
Starting off with the collision detection. Drawing a picture in paint right now to visualize the collision detection.
As you are looping through the map you will check to see if the tile value after converting x and y coordinate for both points are in the map.

        if(x == map[row][col]){
            //int tile = map[row][col];
            //int coordinate = tile * 40;
            
        }

then you will check for collision based upon the tile that it is in. You will do [tile that coordinate is in] * 40. This will give you the proper 
coordinate to check collision off of.

        if(player coord is > coordinate){
            player coord = coordinate;  
        }

Okay so the logic for the collision detection looks like it is good, but ran into an issue. When I try to pass through the map in collision detection
function in main, it threw an error. I had to make the reference to the map in the square class to have a pointer. Currently looking into 
pointers and how they work before I move further.


8/12
FINALLY FIGURING OUT POINTERS
Diving into pointers. "&" gets the location of an address of a variable. The pointer or "*" allows us to point to the location of a variables address

For example: int* number = &otherNumber;

We now have a pointer that is looking at the address of otherNumber INSTEAD OF copying that value itself. This is much more efficient. 

Absolutely make sure to take note of this because you will use this logic once you start making the levels:

You actually already use this concept with your Map* currentMap — that's a pointer to a Map object, meaning currentMap holds the address of whichever map 
is currently active rather than a full copy of it. That's why swapping levels is as cheap as currentMap = &level2 instead of copying the entire grid.

What I'm thinking is have every single map loaded in at compile time and then use currentMap's pointer to switch levels as needed

Came across something very valuable to learn. The collision was not working at all when I tried to run it. Went back and saw that everything logically looked right.
Well, when I was trying to pass the player object by value (square Player) and then i was calling members of that player like "Player.x" it was not colliding with the wall.
Reason for this is because that copy of Player that is passed through the parameter is thrown away after the function ends because we are using a COPY. Doing "Player.x" 
refers to that temporary copy. To fix this, you can do a couple of things. You can pass Player by reference or pointer (square& Player or square* Player), or
you can just do "x" when referring to player's x position. Doing the reference and pointer allows your computer to see the original copy of player. If you want to 
ignore reference and pointer and just pass by value then you will HAVE to use x which will refer to the original copy created because that is in the class (this.x). When you
do Player.x when passing by value then you are only referring to the temporary object that will be thrown away after function call ends.

8/17
It actually is not the map that is causing issues. Map is only being checked in an if statement within the collision detection. So, passing
it through as a pointer is completely acceptable because we are not manipulating it's values

8/18
the if statements are not being touched at all. Begs the question, what do they all have in common where it could be going wrong?

Troubleshooting:
    - Lets take the first if statement and move imaginary values into It
        - Let's assume c is at 5
        - Let's assume top left corner of player has an x coordinate of 213

I figured out why it was wasn't entering the if statements. I was referring to column and row as the const member variables and not the c and r
values I have in my for loops. The issue now is the collision detection is way off. The player does not even collide where it is supposed to. It'said
so crazy I almost don't even know what is going on.

Testing out collision with just one wall. Okay I see the issue now. The if statement are wide open. The player is colliding with the wall
along the whole entire x and y axis that the wall is sitting on instead of within the wall's tiles

8/24
Refer to the last bit of notes from 8/18. Since the collision is wide open you will have to close it. You did this a while back when you were writing the collision detection
for enemies. 

After looking at the function you can see that you were checking the left and right side of the player. If the enemy was anywhere in that box then they are colliding.

so how do you do this for this map?? 

It is getting stuck on the left and top if statements. 

figured it out (LETS GOOOO). The reason the player is getting stuck is because it NEVER visits that second if statement after the first. What you will have 
to do is share the coordinate variables between all of the if statements instead of reassigning it within each if statement. You had too many nested If
statements which lead to your code getting caught up on itself. 

Finally giving in and using AI :((((. You should not check the whole entire grid every frame. You just need to check the tiles that the player
is in

8/25
Using Claude to give me notes on how to solve this instead of copying code. I was very close to solving it with my first approach. Since you need
to check all four corners of the player, make a function as to where you can pass in.

All functions are made to where I can check which tile every corner is in. Check that off

